Patient – Good Morning, doctor. May I come in?

Doctor – Good Morning. How are you? You do look quite pale this morning.

Patient – Yes, doctor. I’ve not been feeling well for the past few days. I’ve been having a stomach ache for a few days and feeling a bit dizzy since yesterday.

Doctor – Okay, let me check. (applies pressure on the stomach and checks for pain) Does it hurt here?

Patient – Yes, doctor, the pain there is the sharpest.

Doctor – Well, you are suffering from a stomach infection, that’s the reason you are having a stomach ache and also getting dizzy. Did you change your diet recently or have something unhealthy?

Patient – Actually, I went to a fair last week and ate food from the stalls there.

Doctor – Okay, so you are probably suffering from food poisoning. Since the food stalls in fairs are quite unhygienic, there’s a high chance those uncovered food might have caused food poisoning.

Patient – I think I will never eat from any unhygienic place in the future.

Doctor – That’s good. I’m prescribing some medicines, have them for one week and come back for a checkup next week. And please try to avoid spicy and fried foods for now.

Patient – Okay, doctor, thank you.

Doctor – Welcome.

Patient – Good afternoon, Doctor.

Doctor – Good afternoon, Mr. Bose. How are you?

Patient – I’m doing good, doctor, but my daughter isn’t doing well. Everywhere, people are getting affected with COVID and I am really worried about her.

Doctor – Please have a seat and tell me what happened.

Patient – Last week, my daughter came back from Pune as her college was closed on account of COVID. From the second day, she has had high fever and has been coughing badly. I think that she has contracted the virus on her way home.

Doctor – Okay, I understand your concern. Having a fever and cough doesn’t necessarily mean that someone has contracted the virus. These are symptoms of common cold too. The change in the temperature of the atmosphere could have triggered these symptoms. Still, to put your worries to rest, I am prescribing some medicines and an RT PCR test. Do the test by tomorrow, and if the test results are positive, make sure she is isolated. On the other hand, if the result is negative, just give her the medicine and ask her to drink a lot of water. Also, bring her in so I could examine her.

Patient – Okay, doctor. I will bring her in the evening. Thank you.

Doctor – You are welcome.

Sample Conversation 3 – Conversation between Doctor and Patient about Joint Pain
Doctor – (to the nurse) Please send in the next patient.

Patient – Hello doctor, good morning.

Doctor – Good morning, have a seat. Please tell me what happened.

Patient – (showing the knee) For the past few months, I have been experiencing a severe pain in my left knee whenever I stand up or walk long distances.

Doctor – (checking the knee) Yes, it is slightly swollen, but probably nothing is broken. Can you please stand up for me?

Patient – (stands up) It really hurts when I try to stand after being seated for a while.

Doctor – Did you fall down or hit your knee somewhere?

Patient – No doctor, as far as I remember, I didn’t hurt my knees.

Doctor – Okay, so I’m giving you Ibuprofen; it will help bring down the swelling and pain. Once the swelling goes down, you can take some tests which will help me judge why you have this constant pain. If you don’t find Ibuprofen in the medical store, you can ask them to give you Paracetamol 600. It will also help ease the pain. Have the medicines for two days and come back for another check-up once the swelling is gone.

Patient – Sure doctor. Thank you.

Doctor – You are welcome.
